docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/using-issues/creating-an-issue
https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/using-issues/creating-an-issue#creating-an-issue-from-a-repository
On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.

Under your repository name, click  Issues.

Screenshot of the main page of a repository. In the horizontal navigation bar, a tab, labeled "Issues," is outlined in dark orange.
Click New issue.

If your repository uses issue templates, next to the type of issue you'd like to open, click Get started.

If the type of issue you'd like to open isn't included in the available options, click Open a blank issue.

Screenshot of the template chooser for an issue. Below the template choices, a link, labeled "Open a blank issue," is outlined in dark orange.
In the "Title" field, type a title for your issue.

In the comment body field, type a description of your issue.

If you're a project maintainer, you can assign the issue to someone, add it to a project, associate it with a milestone, set the issue type, or apply a label.

When you're finished, click Submit new issue.

Creating an issue with GitHub CLI
GitHub CLI is an open source tool for using GitHub from your computer's command line. When you're working from the command line, you can use the GitHub CLI to save time and avoid switching context. To learn more about GitHub CLI, see About GitHub CLI.

To create an issue, use the gh issue create subcommand. To skip the interactive prompts, include the --body and the --title flags.
https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/using-issues/creating-an-issue#creating-an-issue-from-a-comment
You can open a new issue from a comment in an issue or pull request. When you open an issue from a comment, the issue contains a snippet showing where the comment was originally posted.

Navigate to the comment that you would like to open an issue from.

In that comment, click .

Screenshot of a comment on a pull request. The kebab button is outlined in dark orange.
Click Reference in new issue.

Use the "Repository" dropdown menu, and select the repository you want to open the issue in.

Type a descriptive title and body for the issue.

Click Create issue.

If you're a project maintainer, you can assign the issue to someone, add it to a project, associate it with a milestone, set the issue type, or apply a label.

When you're finished, click Submit new issue.

gh issue create --title "My new issue" --body "Here are more details."
You can also specify assignees, labels, milestones, and projects.

gh issue create --title "My new issue" --body "Here are more details." --assignee @me,monalisa --label "bug,help wanted" --project onboarding --milestone "learning codebase"
